Samples for Azure CLI (#12)
Azure-Samples/azure-load-testing-samples: azure-cli-samples/create-run-test-yaml/README.md

---
page_type: sample
languages:
- bash
- azurecli
products:
- azure
- azure-load-testing
urlFragment: azure-load-testing-create-with-yaml-azure-cli
description: Create and run load test with load test with load testing YAML config file from Azure CLI extension for Azure Load Testing
---

> # Create and run load test with load test with load testing YAML config file by using the Azure CLI extension for Azure Load Testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create and run a load test with YAML configuration by using the Azure CLI
```

This project demonstrates how to use an Azure CLI sample script to create and run a load test with [load testing YAML config file](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/load-testing/reference-test-config-yaml) on Azure Load Testing.

In this sample script we perform the following operations:

> 1. Create a Load Testing resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an Azure load testing resource
```

1. Create a load test with load testing YAML config file
1. Add app components to the test for monitoring

> 1. Add server metrics for the above app component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add server metrics for the app component
```

1. Run the test by creating a test run
1. Download result files for the test run

## Prerequisites

1. An existing Azure subscription. If you don't already have a Microsoft Azure subscription, you can create one for free [here](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=330212).
1. An existing resource group.
1. Azure CLI. You can install by following the steps mentioned [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli).

## Getting started

### Preparation

1. Open the source code in VS Code.

1. Update the `create-run-test-yaml.sh` file and replace the text placeholders:

    | Placeholder | Description |
    | ----------- | ----------- |

>     | `<subscriptionId>` | Azure subscription Id |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | `<subscriptionId>` | Azure subscription ID |
```

>     | `<myRG>` | Resource group that contains the Azure Load Testing resource. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | `<myRG>` | Resource group that contains the Azure load testing resource. |
```

>     | `<myLoadTestResource>` | Name of the Azure Load Testing resource.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | `<myLoadTestResource>` | Name of the Azure load testing resource.  |
```

    | `<myLoadTest>` | Unique name for the load test, must contain only lower-case alphabetic, numeric, underscore or hyphen characters. |

> 1. Update the path for the YAML file in `loadTestConfig`.

Reviewer: This is not necessary because you provide the config.yaml file in the sample.

> 1. Update the app component(s) and server metric(s) for the target application you are testing.

Reviewer: How can people find these values? Do they need to use the Azure Resource Explorer or something else?

> 1. Update the `sample.jmx` file and replace the text placeholders:

Reviewer: One of the examples should ideally have an env var to pass the endpoint in through the command-line.

Author: Will add one sample for this in the next PR.

    | Placeholder | Description |
    | ----------- | ----------- |
    | `{my-app-endpoint}` | URL of the application endpoint to test. |

### Run the sample

> 1. Open a bash session and run the following command.

Reviewer: By putting all commands in a bash script, we force people to use bash. Should we also provide a PowerShell script? Or should the description here list the individual az commands?

Author: That's a good point. I was looking for other Azure CLI samples and I found only bash script. If you have references of other ways to do it. We could do that as well.

	 ``` Bash
	 ./create-run-test-yaml.sh
	 ```

1. Go to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).

> 1. Go to the Azure Load Testing resource to view the test results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the Azure load testing resource to view the test results.
```
